
=head1 How Dist::Zilla Builds Your Dist

A Dist::Zilla object represents your distribution, and provides methods that
implement C<dzil> commands like C<release> and C<test>.  The most important of
its methods, though, is C<build>.  This tells it to take all of its
configuration and input and produce a tarball suitable for release.  Almost all
of this work is done by its plugins, although some work is left for hard-coded
glue that holds the plugins together.

The build occurs in phases.  For example, first files are gathered into a big
pile, then some are removed, then some are rewritten; other work happens, and
then finally the files are all written to the build destination.  Each phase's
work is performed by plugins that perform the role (as in the L<Moose> role)
associated with the phase.  So, if you want to write a plugin that adds files
during the file-gathering phase, you'd write a class that C<does> the role
C<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::FileGatherer>.  It is important to realize that a single
plugin can perform many of these roles.  When more than one plugin can perform
work in a given phase, the plugins are run in the order they were listed in
configuration.

I<Learning the build phases and associated plugins is the key to using
Dist::Zilla effectively.>

Here's a list of the phases, followed by a brief description of some of the
most commonly-used:

=for :list
* pre-build initialization is performed by BeforeBuild plugins
* files are added to the dist by FileGatherer plugins
* files are removed from the dist by FilePruner plugins
* file contents are altered by FileMunger plugins
* dist prerequisites are registered by PrereqSource plugins
* distmeta (F<META.json>) contents are contributed by MetaProvider plugins
* each installer (like F<Makefile.PL>) is configured by an InstallTool plugin
* the dist is written out to disk
* post-build activities are performed by AfterBuild plugins

Other parts of Dist::Zilla's behavior are handled by this same sort of
phase-and-plugin setup.  There are BeforeRelease, Releaser, and AfterRelease
plugins, BuildRunner and TestRunner plugins, VersionProvider plugins, and
others.  Look at the list of modules in the C<Dist::Zilla::Role::> namespace
for a more complete list.

=head2 Some Common Phase Roles

=head2 FileGatherer

Plugins performing the L<FileGatherer|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::FileGatherer> role
have their C<gather_files> methods called early on in the build process, and
they're expected to inject files into the distributions in-memory file listing.
Plugins that add files to the distribution are pretty common, and they're easy
to implement.  For example, the plugins that generate the F<LICENSE> and
F<README> files are simple FileGatherer plugins.

A very easy to forget FileGatherer is GatherDir, which adds all the files in a
given directory.  This plugin is usually used to add the contents of your
working directory, so if you don't use it, I<you won't have any of your on-disk
files in your dist>.

=head2 FilePruner

L<FilePruner|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::FilePruner> plugins remove files that were
just added by FileGatherer plugins.  There's the ManifestSkip plugin, which
reads a standard F<MANIFEST.SKIP> file to find things to remove, and there's
PruneCruft, which removes probably unneeded files like dotdirs, build tools,
old builds, and other stuff.

=head2 FileMunger

L<FileMunger|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::FileMunger> plugins look at existing files
and screw around with their names or content.  One common FileMunger is the
PodWeaver plugin, which uses L<Pod::Weaver> to rewrite the documentation of
Perl source.  There's also PkgVersion, which adds a C<$VERSION> declaration to
your source code; and NextRelease, which updates your changelog to have the
right version, since you might not know it until you build.

FileMunger plugins can be incredibly useful, but they should be used carefully.
It's easy to break your source code or cause other bizarre errors by munging
too recklessly.

=head2 AfterRelease

AfterRelease plugins don't have any special purpose.  Their key benefit is that
they run code after the successful release of your distribution.  This makes
them really useful for L<version control integration|@vcs>, local installation,
sending a release announcement, or anything else you want to do after release.

