
=head1 Customizing the Minting Process

Dist::Zilla lets you create any number of "minting profiles" to create
distributions with different default contents.  You might have one for
work and one for personal code; one for object-oriented code and one
for functional code; or one for web applications and one for command-line
applications, etc.

=head2 Preparation
For the tasks below, you'll want to:

=for :list
* install L<Dist::Zilla>, version 4.101780 or later
* run C<L<dzil setup|@initial-setup>>

The rest of this document assumes that you haven't already made a custom
minting profile, meaning that you haven't got anything in F<~/.dzil/profiles>.
If you have a default profile, just rename it if you want to follow the steps
exactly as described below.

=head2 Create a default profile

Create a directory called F<~/.dzil/profiles/default>.  This will hold
your default minting profile, overriding the very simple default that
ships with Dist::Zilla.

The first thing you want to do is change into that directory and create
a F<profile.ini> file with the following content:

  #!vim dosini
  [TemplateModule/:DefaultModuleMaker]
  template = Module.pm

  [DistINI]
  append_file = plugins.ini

  [GatherDir::Template]
  root = skel

The F<profile.ini> file defines two components for minting your
new distribution.  The first one, TemplateModule, is given a special
name C<:DefaultModuleMaker>, to tell Dist::Zilla that this component
will be used for creating the new module file.  The C<template> parameter
tells it a file to use, so create a F<Module.pm> file (in the same
directory as F<profile.ini>) with the following content:

  use strict;
  use warnings;
  package {{$name}};

  1;

The second component in F<profile.ini> is DistINI, which
says to build a F<dist.ini> file based on you L<initial
configuration|@initial-setup> plus the contents of F<plugins.ini>.  That's
where you'll put any special plugins you want.

We'll create a C<plugins.ini> and put in our preferred default configuration,
which might look like this:

  #!vim dosini
  [@Basic]
  [NextRelease]
  [@Git]

The third component in our F<profile.ini> was GatherDir::Template, which
specifies a directory of templates that will also be created in your new
distribution.  We could put templates there that would be rendered into files
in our new distribution.

Just create F<~/.dzil/profiles/default/skel>, change to that directory, and add
normal Text::Template template files.

Instead of using this for a starter F<Changes> file, though, we'll use the
GenerateFile plugin, which lets us specify the file's content right in our
F<profile.ini>.  We'll add this to the profile:

  #!vim dosini
  [GenerateFile / Generate-Changes ]
  filename    = Changes
  is_template = 0
  content = Revision history for {{$dist->name}}
  content =
  content = {{$NEXT}}

Change to your work directory and run C<dzil new My::Module>.  You should get a
new distribution that is almost exactly like the original default included with
Dist::Zilla, except that it has the addition of the plugins we wanted in our
F<dist.ini>, and there's a F<Changes> file.

Now, all you have to do is customize the F<plugins.ini> and F<Module.pm> files
in minting profile to suit your own personal style.

=head2 Setting up an alternate minting profile

The easiest way to set up an alternate profile is to copy your default profile
to a new directory.  For example, if you wanted to set up a profile that
provided a Moose-specific starter module, you could create a copy like this:

  $ cp -a ~/.dzil/profiles/default ~/.dzil/profiles/moose

Then, customize the F<~/.dzil/profiles/moose/Module.pm> file to
load Moose and provide any boilerplate you like.

You can run C<dzil new> with the C<-p> flag to use the alternate profile:

  $ dzil new -p moose My::Moose::Module

=head2 Distifying Your Profile

Maybe you want to be able to install your minting profile along with your
plugin bundle.  Maybe, more usefully, you run a project (or a department) that
needs to have consistent settings for all new dists.  In these cases, putting a
profile in your home directory isn't enough.  You want something that can be
shared across many users.  This is easy: you can include your profile in a
distribution for installation.

There are lots of ways to do this, and you can accomplish lots of interesting
things with minting profiles, but the simplest way is I<very> simple, and will
work for just about everything.

First, make a new distribution, with a module in it named
Dist::Zilla::MintingProfile::I<ProviderNameHere> -- replacing ProviderNameHere
with a name for your provider.  A provider is a module that can provide mintinf
profiles.  Here, it's just there to get a File::ShareDir slot, so it doesn't
need much code.  This should do it:

  #!perl
  package Dist::Zilla::MintingProfile::ProviderNameHere;

  use Moose;
  with 'Dist::Zilla::Role::MintingProfile::ShareDir';

The MintingProfile::ShareDir role means that the profile will try look in the
module's ShareDir for the profile's F<profile.ini> and other files.  To get
them into the ShareDir, you'll need to use ModuleShareDirs in your F<dist.ini>:

  #!vim dosini
  [ModuleShareDirs]
  Dist::Zilla::MintingProfile::ProviderNameHere = profiles

This says "the files in my dist's F<./profiles> directory will get installed
into the sharedir for this module."  It's I<critical> that you use
B<Module>ShareDirs, and not just ShareDirs, here.

Notice that we called the directory F<profileB<s>>.  That's because you can
have many profiles for this one module.  As with the profiles in your home
directory, the default profile goes under F<default>.  Make the directory
F<./profiles/default> in your distribution and put your F<profile.ini> and
other files in it.  If you want to make other profiles, put them in other
subdirectories.  Now, when you install the minting profile distribution, you
can use these profiles.  Instead of C<-p>, which gave an alternate profile
name, use C<-P> to give an alternate profile provider.  For example, you could
run:

  $ dzil new -P ProviderNameHere  New::Module

Or, to get a non-default profile from that provider:

  $ dzil new -P ProviderNameHere -p otherprofile New::Module

=for cyoa
? vcs-git      ? learn how to use Dist::Zilla (including minting) with Git
? prereq       ? learn about declaring prerequisites
? writing-docs ? learn how Dist::Zilla helps you write docs
? testing      ? learn how to test your distribtion
? versioning   ? learn about managing version numbers with Dist::Zilla
? release      ? learn how to release your distribution to the CPAN
