
=head1 Building a Dist from Scratch

Starting a distribution with Dist::Zilla is easy.  It provides a system for
"minting" new distributions, much like `h2xs`, L<Module::Starter>, or other
similar tools.  Unlike those, it is I<extremely> customizable and can be made
to do I<much> more than just build a bunch of files for you to edit.

=head2 Install Dist::Zilla

For the tasks below, you'll want to:

=for :list
* install L<Dist::Zilla>, version 4.102342 or later
* run C<L<dzil setup|@initial-setup>>

The rest of this document assumes that you haven't made a custom minting
profile, meaning that you haven't got anything in F<~/.dzil/profiles>.  If you
do, and the behavior you see isn't what's described below, you might want to
move that directory out of the way, or read more about L<how minting profiles
work|@minting-profile>.

=head2 Run C<dzil new>

It's easy:

  $ dzil new Your::Library
  [DZ] making target dir ./Your-Library
  [DZ] writing files to /Users/rjbs/tmp/Your-Library
  [DZ] dist minted in ./Your-Library

If you haven't set up any special minting configuration, you'll have two files.

F<./Your-Library/dist.ini>:

  #!vim dosini
  name    = Your-Library
  author  = E. Xavier Ample <example@cpan.org>
  license = Perl_5
  copyright_holder = E. Xavier Ample <example@cpan.org>
  copyright_year   = 2010

  version = 0.001

  [@Basic]

F<./Your-Library/lib/Your/Library.pm>

  #!perl
  use strict;
  use warnings;
  package Your::Library;

  1;

There isn't a lot of other boilerplate, because the default minter assumes that
you're going to go whole hog and use lots of plugins to build everything else
you might need. It doesn't I<add> those plugins to your F<dist.ini> for you,
though. The only plugins it I<does> add are the ones in the
L<Basic bundle|Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Basic>, so that the other C<dzil>
commands work. You'll have choose the other plugins yourself.

It's B<crucial> that you understand what's in that "@Basic" bundle.  That is
almost the entire configuration that will be used to build your distribution.
If you add more plugins that conflict with the ones in the basic bundle, but
you had no idea what was in "@Basic," you will be confused.

=head2 Write some code and some tests

This bit is just like it would be with anything else: do the hard work that
will make releasing the dist worthwhile.  Dist::Zilla, sadly, will not write
your code or your code's tests for you.

You'll also want to write documentation, of course, but Dist::Zilla can help
make that less painful.  Choose an appropriate set of plugins, test, and
release!

=for cyoa
? prereq       ? learn about declaring prerequisites
? writing-docs ? learn how Dist::Zilla helps you write docs
? testing      ? learn how to test your distribtion
? versioning   ? learn about managing version numbers with Dist::Zilla
? release      ? learn how to release your distribution to the CPAN
? minting-profile ? learn how to customize the minting process
? how-build-works ? learn about plugins and Dist::Zilla's build phases
