
=head1 Declaring and Detecting Prerequisites

The CPAN clients that will be used to install your distribution will first look
at its F<META.yml> or F<META.json> files or interact with its install tool to
decide what libraries, if any, have to be installed before your code can be
built, tested, and installed.  These are your dist's I<prereqs>.

There are two common ways to set up your prerequisites.  You can declare them
explicitly, or you can let Dist::Zilla detect them by analyzing your code.

=head2 Declaring Your Prereqs

The Prereqs plugin is about as straightforward as it gets:

  #!vim dosini
  [Prereqs]
  Sub::Exporter     = 0.979 ; to get INIT arg
  Acme::ProgressBar = 1.002 ; includes needed bug fixes

If you need to declare special kind of prereqs, like prereqs only needed to
test your dist, you could add either of the configuration sections in the
following sample -- they'd have the same effect.

  #!vim dosini
  [Prereqs]
  -phase = test

  Test::BinaryData = 0
  Test::More       = 0.88 ; for done_testing

X<>

  #!vim dosini
  [Prereqs / TestRequires]
  Test::BinaryData = 0
  Test::More       = 0.88 ; for done_testing

Because you can't have two sections with the same name, the second example will
probably be simpler to use all around.

In general, the only prereq plugins you should need are RuntimeRequires (the
default), TestRequires, ConfigureRequires, and BuildRequires.  For more
information about these, consult the CPAN META file specification.

=head2 Detecting Your Prereqs

The problem with maintaining your list of prerequisites in your F<dist.ini> is
the same as maintaining it in your F<Makefile.PL>: the versions required in
your code and your configuration diverge.  The most common version of this is
having a lot of bare C<use Some::Module> lines in your code, but specific
versions in your installer.

Dist::Zilla solves this problem by figuring out your prerequisites from your
code.  You specify the version in your C<use> statement and Dist::Zilla
requires that version.  All you have to add to your configuration is:

  #!vim dosini
  [AutoPrereqs]

It will look at all the C<use> and C<require> statements in your code,
along with some special cases for L<Moose>.  Requirements found for code
that's going to be installed (like programs or libraries) are made runtime
prereqs.  Requirements found for test libraries become test prereqs.

To specify I<particular> versions of a prerequisite, you need to use the
C<< use MODULE VERSION >> form, which is actually a I<very good> thing,
because it means that we can no longer compile our code if the prereqs
aren't met.  It keeps our code and install data in sync.  For example:

  use Moose 1.00;
  use JSON 2 (); # don't import any functions

(At this point, you'll probably want to make sure that you're requiring the
right version in your code.  Many dists require one version in the code and
one in the prereq listing.  Now that you've only got one place to list the
required version, make sure you get it right.)

If AutoPrereqs makes mistakes, you can always tell it to skip things or add
things manually with Prereqs:

  #!vim dosini
  [AutoPrereqs]
  skip = ^Library::Bogus$
  skip = ^Bundled::

  [Prereqs]
  Something::AutoPrereqs::Misses = 1.234

