
=head1 Writing Zilla-Enhanced Documentation

=head2 Documentation Boilerplate Eradication

The CPAN has good community standards for documentation.  The L<Pod|perlpod>
documentation format makes it pretty easy to write documentation, too.  The big
problem is all the boring boilerplate that you're expected to write.  Take this
hypothetical document:

  #!synmux
  #!vim perl
  package Your::Library;
  #!vim pod

  =head1 NAME

  Your::Library - a really awesome library

  =head1 VERSION

  version 1.234

  =head1 SYNOPSIS

    ...

  =head1 METHODS

  =head2 method_x

  This method does something experimental.

  =head2 method_y

  This method returns a reason.

  =head1 SEE ALSO

  =over 4

  =item *

  L<Your::Module>

  =item *

  L<Your::Package>

  =back

  =head1 AUTHOR

    E. Xavier Ample <example@example.com>

  =head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

  This software is copyright (c) 2010 by E. Xavier Ample.

  This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
  same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

So, in the above fifty lines or so, only about ten are specific to the package
or interesting to maintain.  Distribution "starter" tools can set this
boilerplate up, but it's still up to you to maintain it, that that's a drag.
With the right configuration, Dist::Zilla will let you replace the above
documentation with:

  #!synmux
  #!vim perl
  package Your::Library;
  # ABSTRACT: a really awesome library
  #!vim pod

  =head1 SYNOPSIS

    ...

  =method method_x

  This method does something experimental.

  =method method_y

  This method returns a reason.

  =head1 SEE ALSO

  =for :list
  * L<Your::Module>
  * L<Your::Package>

Now, the only documentation you've written is the documentation you care about.
Everything else gets written only as needed, and it's added each time you
release, so it always uses the latest version of your preferred layout and
configuration.  This is done by L<Pod::Weaver>.

=head2 Using Pod::Weaver

To get most of the benefit of Pod::Weaver, just add this line to your
F<dist.ini>:

  #!vim dosini
  [PodWeaver]

This will add sections for each module's name, abstract, version, authors,
license, and a bunch of other bits in the middle like the synopsis and methods.
It will let you use the commands C<=method>, C<=attr>, and C<=func> to set up
self-organizing sections for methods, attributes, and functions.

For the short-form list syntax shown above, you'll need to bring in another
Pod::Weaver plugin.  One way is to drop a F<weaver.ini> file in your dist
directory and put this in it:

  #!vim dosini
  [@Default]

  [-Transformer]
  transformer = List

That sets up all the default plugins as well as a plugin for
L<Pod::Weaver::Transformer::List>.
